---
title: "DeepGraphMut: a graph-based deep learning method for cancer prognosis using somatic mutation profile "
collection: publications
category: manuscripts
permalink: /publication/2025-08-15-paper3
excerpt: 'Cancer remains a leading cause of morbidity and mortality worldwide. Despite advances in genomics, identifying clinically relevant subtypes of cancer remains challenging due to its complex and heterogeneous nature. In this work, we propose DeepGraphMut (DGM), a novel graph-based deep-learning pipeline that integrates somatic mutation data with protein–protein interaction (PPI) networks. By employing a graph autoencoder with a graph attention layer and a node-level attention decoder, DGM generates patient-specific clinically relevant encodings for unsupervised and supervised tasks. We demonstrate the effectiveness of DGM across 16 cancer types comprising of 7352 samples from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA). Unsupervised clustering reveals distinct subtypes with significant survival differences in 11 cancer types. In supervised analysis using a Cox regression model, DGM demonstrates excellent performance in predicting survival outcomes, achieving a high concordance index (C-index) value in the range of 0.7 across most cancers, underscoring its robust predictive performance using only somatic mutation data. Furthermore, DGM outperforms its lightweight variant and network-based stratification methods in both unsupervised and supervised analyses. In summary, this study presents a promising approach for cancer subtype identification and prognosis, especially in resource-limited settings where multi-omics data may not be readily available. By leveraging the strengths of graph learning and network biology, DGM offers a valuable tool for advancing personalized medicine.'
date: 2025-08-15
venue: 'Briefings in Bioinformatics'
#slidesurl: 'https://academicpages.github.io/files/slides3.pdf'
paperurl: 'https://Akankxha.github.io/files/BriefingsInBioinformatics_2025.pdf'
citation: 'Aswin Jose, Akansha Srivastava, Ariba Ansari, Palakkad Krishnanunni Vinod, DeepGraphMut: a graph-based deep learning method for cancer prognosis using somatic mutation profile, Briefings in Bioinformatics, Volume 26, Issue 4, July 2025, bbaf409, https://doi.org/10.1093/bib/bbaf409'
---

The contents above will be part of a list of publications, if the user clicks the link for the publication than the contents of section will be rendered as a full page, allowing you to provide more information about the paper for the reader. When publications are displayed as a single page, the contents of the above "citation" field will automatically be included below this section in a smaller font.
